

This a model from the article:  
**One-dimensional rabbit sinoatrial node models: benefits and limitations.**   
Garny A, Kohl P, Hunter PJ, Boyett MR, Noble D. _J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol_
2003 Oct;14(10 Suppl):S121-32
[14760914](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14760914) ,  
**Abstract:**   
INTRODUCTION: Cardiac multicellular modeling has traditionally focused on
ventricular electromechanics. More recently, models of the atria have started
to emerge, and there is much interest in addressing sinoatrial node structure
and function. METHODS AND RESULTS: We implemented a variety of one-dimensional
sinoatrial models consisting of descriptions of central, transitional, and
peripheral sinoatrial node cells, as well as rabbit or human atrial cells.
These one-dimensional models were implemented using CMISS on an SGI Origin
2000 supercomputer. Intercellular coupling parameters recorded in experimental
studies on sinoatrial node and atrial cell-pairs under-represent the
electrotonic interactions that any cardiomyocyte would have in a
multidimensional setting. Unsurprisingly, cell-to-cell coupling had to be
scaled-up (by a factor of 5) in order to obtain a stable leading pacemaker
site in the sinoatrial node center. Further critical parameters include the
gradual increase in intercellular coupling from sinoatrial node center to
periphery, and the presence of electrotonic interaction with atrial cells.
Interestingly, the electrotonic effect of the atrium on sinoatrial node
periphery is best described as opposing depolarization, rather than
necessarily hyperpolarizing, as often assumed. CONCLUSION: Multicellular one-
dimensional models of sinoatrial node and atrium can provide useful insight
into the origin and spread of normal cardiac excitation. They require larger
than "physiologic" intercellular conductivities in order to make up for a lack
of "anatomical" spatial scaling. Multicellular models for more in-depth
quantitative studies will require more realistic anatomico-physiologic
properties.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Garny A, Kohl P, Hunter PJ, Boyett MR, Noble D.
(2003) - version05**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/garny_kohl_hunter_boyett_noble_2003_version05)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Noble, Penny, J**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
Oxford University  
Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

